So let's have a look at another example in this example we want to promote host 10 1 1 1 2 Servite 10
1 2 1.
So this host should be permitted to the server but we want to deny everyone our sending traffic to that
server.
But we also want to allow traffic to go to all other servers.
Anyone else should be able to connect to all of the servers.
So the first decision again is where we going to bind this Access Control List and in which direction.
So we combine it.
If Sirus the sirra inbound or we could binded on 0 1 outbound.
The issue with trying to bind the access list on if seriously Zerah is that we cannot specify destination
addresses with the standard IP access list.
You can only specify source addresses so you won't be able to implement this statement that is deny
everyone else to a specific server but allow traffic to all other servers because otherwise you're going
to say deny any and the very next statement is going to be permit any which won't work because the permit
any will never be used.
So what we're going to do is we're going to bind it on this interface outbound.
If serious Lesch one this also follows best practices which say that you should bind stented IP access
lists as close to the destination as possible.
I'll explain more about that in a moment.
So on our router we could configure this access control lists by going into global configuration mode
and topping X-ists list and let's choose number three Palmet 10 Doc wondered wondered 1.1 and then we
could go into the interface if there is one on top of Common IP access group.
Three out.
So once again I could do the C'mon show access lists
which just show me that simple is that I've just created.
The catch here was to remember a way to bind the access list and to remember that you don't need a deny
any at the end because there's an implicit deny in an access list statement.
Werman Explain what this number 10 means in a moment.
In this example you want to permit subnet 10 1 1 0 and then deny everyone else.
Once again we would bind the Access Control List inbound on fust.
Ethan it seriously Sarah says to make the access list as efficient as possible.
We once again don't want the rodder having to process packets internally just to have them dropped on
an external outbound interface.
So we'll bind the Access Control List inbound.
So on our router going into global configuration mode the come on access list and in this case choose
number four and we will permit in this case a specific subnet so 10.0 wondered 1.0.
And then we need to put in the wildcard mosque 0 in binary means match.
So the first octet 10 match second Optik one must match that octet one must match at the last octet
can be equal to anything.
There's an implicit deny so we don't have to specify anything else.
However if you want to log information you could do the following X's list for denie and notice the
option.
Any notice this option log that would allow us to log information to assist log server or log locally
on the router so that we can see which packets were denied.
When it comes to logging it's best practice not to log locally on the router but to push it to a server
like a log server.
The reason for that is that the Rodda has limited space for storing log messages whereas if you store
them on a server you can store huge amounts of data because of the size of hard disks these days.
So it makes sense to back the logging information off to an external server.
The last step in this example is to go interface zero zero and topic come on IP X's group for in once
again I can do the come on the access list
if I just wanted to see that specific access list but a number in access list for you can see the first
line is saying permit 10 1 1 0 with wild card bets 0 0 0 2 4 5.
And the second line is saying deny any and log better information show IP interface.
Seriously Ceara is showing me that the inbound access list is for.
So we have bound X's list for inbound on Fosset Ethan 0 0.
Now this example the interface is shut down.
I'm not too concerned because I'm just showing you the syntax of the access lists rather than showing
you working example.
Be careful with adding an explicit denie as I did in this example.
You need to read between the lines in the questions and make sure that you are explicitly asked to deny
traffic if not asked don't add the line deny any because they may be testing you to make sure you know
about the implicit deny.
At the end of every access list.
Another example in this case we want to permit 10 1 1 1 to telnet to the router.
And then we want to deny everyone else telling it to the router and allow traffic anywhere else.
Now once again you need to read between the lines carefully.
In this example we are setting up a standard Access Control list.
So the only way to do this is to bind the stented Access Control List on the Viti Wilens remembers stented
IP access lists cannot determine protocol or destination addresses.
So if the example is asking for a standard IP access list to deny or permit telnet then you know that
you have to bind that access list on the Viti y lines.
So as an example I'm going to telnet to Arata this case the address is 10 0 0 2 farfel but in my username
put in my password topping the C'mon show run time section a line will show me what's configured on
the lines of this router.
As you can see here there are no access lists on the Viti wildlands of this router.
So then I could do the following access list.
Let's just pick a number like 10 Palmet and notice the IP address is 10 1 1 1 no one else is allowed
to telnet to the router so commit 10 1 1 1 and then I can go onto the line between Solangi 2 0 0 for
Anani to use the command access Clauss rather than Access group noted you can specify either standard
IP access list or extended Atiyah access lists in early Iris's you could only choose standard on the
access lists.
But these days you can use both standon an extended ACL.
So I'm going to choose 10.
And notice I can fold the incoming telnet connections or outgoing telnet connections.
So I'm going to specify in
an I'm going to try and telnet to the Rodda again.
So telnet 10 0 0 2 5 4.
And notice the telnet connection does not open because we are denying telnet to the Rodda just to prove
that to you.
If I remove this access Clauss and then put it back on again notice I'm able to telnet and I can successfully
log in it's just connect with that access list back again Tron telnet and noticed that telnet is denied.
So please don't forget about access lists that can be bound on Viti Why lines to permit or deny telnet
or access to a router.
Once again show run pipe section a line shows me that I have the access Clause 10 down inbound on the
Viti y line some unable to tell me from my PCP to have a look at the IP address of my PC as you'll see
here the IP address is 10 0 0 1 so on the route to what topic I'm on no access list.
10.
Be careful with that.
Come on it doesn't just remove a line on the access list.
It deletes the entire access list.
So topping the on do show access list 10 schemin that that access list does not exist.
So I've just deleted the access list entirely but I caught up to come on X-ists list 10 minute 10 0
0 1 and then go into my line bt why.
Just make sure that it's found.
So access Clauss 10 in now if I tried telnet noticed that telnet is successful.
So I'm able to tell that to the Rodda
that is via the come on do show access list 10.
You can see that there are two matches on the sexist list but Telenet again do show come on.
Notice the matches are increasing.
Can I still tell it to the right if I delete this access list so I'm going to topic them on the access
list.
10 Do the show command.
And as you can see the access list has been removed.
I'll disconnect my telling it's issue and let me see if I can tell it again.
And as you can see I can gain access to show run type section line
showed me that the access list is still bound and this is a big gotcha.
This also applies to access list bound on interfaces.
You can bind a nonexistent access list on an interface.
It's very dangerous because if someone later on credit that access list and let's say inadvertently
configured it for something else that access list would immediately become active and traffic would
be denied or permitted unexpectedly as per the new access list.
So let's say we permitted 10 1 to 2 to 1 for argument's sake.
Now suddenly by telling it back to the router notice the telnet session is denied.
Be very careful with your access lists create them then bind them.
If you delete them remove them from the bindings.
In other words remove them from the Viti y lines or from the interfaces.
Do not allow non-existent access lists to be bound to interfaces and do not allow access lists just
to exist in a configuration not being bound anyway.